How to Overcome Fear and Live Your Dreams Changing my life was easy.

 Laughably easy.

I e-mailed a resume, did a 12 minute Skype interview, and typed up a letter of resignation.  I then packed up and left the small town where I'd spend my first 34 years on the planet.  All in all, it probably consumed an hour of my time. 

So why, prior to that, did I spend 10 years working in a job I hated, to pay the mortgage on a house I didn't love, in a town where I never belonged?  Why did I spend so many years of my life experiencing unhappiness?  Why didn't I put in this hour of work sooner?

I think the answer is simple: fear.  For much of my life, fear has been the dominating force behind all of my decisions.   I was afraid that I was inadequate, and that I would never find an employer that would hire me.  I was afraid that I would fail, and that my family would starve.  I was afraid to give up the "security" of my previous job in order to find happiness.

In so many aspects of our lives, fear is the invisible wall that keeps us from moving forward.  Fear is the wall that prevents us from reaching our potential, and finding happiness. Fear comes in disguise, dressed up as sensibility. It tells us that we are being sensible.  Fear told me that I was a parent, so of course it would be irresponsible to take unnecessary risks.  Kids need stability, and taking any financial risks would jeopardize our daughter's well-being.  Fear told me that I was realistic--I knew that I was lucky to find the job that I had.  It was because of fear, that I was convinced that I was certainly nothing spectacular, and I would not stand out from the herd of other applicants somewhere else.

It is amazing how many lies our brains feed us.  And until we can see them for what they are, they become reality to us.  One of the most important skills we can learn, is to step back and view our thoughts as a third party.  Do that, and see how many fear-based lies your brain is trying to pass off as truth.  In my case, it was an unbelievable amount of lies, that led me to feel trapped in my situation.

And that situation was gradually worsening, until everything came crumbling down last January.  Even as that happened, the fear persisted.  I was unhappy, and my physical and mental health were suffering for it.  I was struggling in my marriage, and not taking as good care of my daughter as I could.  I was harming more than myself, by letting fear paralyze me.

In the end, I did move forward. I did take the steps to make the change.  At the end of July, we signed the deed of our house back over the the bank, and donated most of our possessions.  With whatever items would fit in our station wagon and a small U-haul trailer, the three of us drove over 1200 miles across the country, to Houston.  On the balcony of our small, sparsely-appointed apartment, we spend our evenings sipping wine and enjoying our fresh start.
 Here are some tips for overcoming fear and creating the life of your dreams: 
 
	 Look at the worst case scenario.  And be realistic about it.  I was afraid we would starve, but when I considered it, I saw that we would not.  There are many ways to get food, and many ways to survive.  The worst case scenario was not starvation, it was embarrassment. 
	 Don't fight it head on.  Pay attention to your fear.  Look at your thoughts, with understanding, so that you can find the root of your fear.  Just trying to plow ahead, without understanding what is holding you back, will not work in the long term. 
	 Find support.   Whenever you make a change in your life, you will have supporters and naysayers.  Surround yourself with cheerleaders.  Be sure to have people to encourage you when you're doubting yourself. 
	 Watch out for arbitrary rules and steps.  They are your mind's way of avoiding actual change.  Before I actually applied for the job in Houston, I had a lot of "conditions" that had to be met, before we "could" leave.  I needed to pay off the house, and get some money in savings, for example.  While these are good things to have done, doing them would have kept me in an unpleasant situation for many more years.  When we were ready to make the move, we made it happen, even with the conditions unmet. 
	 Spring into action.  If you sit around thinking through the scenario, you will either create plans that never happen, or you will create more scenarios to be afraid of.  Overthinking will not serve you well, once you have a plan.  Do something to move in the direction of making it a reality.  Take baby steps if you need to, but try to do something everyday. 
 
Facing fear, and overcoming it, is a very difficult process, but it does get easier the more times you do it.  And it is completely worth it.   Now, instead of dreading my job, I look forward to bicycle commuting to a job that I love.  My days are filled with sunshine, joy, and simplicity.  While I still do have bad days and occasional struggles, overall our life is proof that there is a such thing as happily ever after.

 Bethany enjoys writing from her small apartment in Houston, at least until she replaces it with a sail boat.  She writes about her adventures, and her thoughts on life, at her blog, Journey to Ithaca. 

 Photo credit The post How to Overcome Fear and Live Your Dreams appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
5 Things You Need To Stop Comparing Are you currently indulging in this very ironic activity where you constantly think of other people and their lives instead of your own?

That sounds kind of far out, but a lot of us suffer from it.

We constantly compare ourselves with others.

We think about our own jobs, and then others', seeing who has the cooler title.

We think about money and see who has more of it.

 We look at others' lives, and forget about our own 

In this modern society where we're constantly in a race, many material things control our lives.

It is a necessity to have said material things, but simply chasing it for yourself and then wondering how others do not do you any good.

That's how it becomes a rat race, where survival of the fittest becomes the most prominent rule.

Let's get out of the race for a change.

Life isn't a race. Life is about fulfillment and finding happiness from within to achieve your ultimate destiny.

It isn't easy, but you can start by stop comparing about the following things.

 5 things you need to stop comparing 

 1) Your own situation at hand 

Are you constantly wondering, "Dang, I wish I was at the bar now" or "I sure wish I was watching the game now"?

Wish all you like, but what you're actually doing is comparing your situation at hand with an unreachable state.

Continue with this comparison, and you're just going to increase your boredom or even make you dread what you're doing.

It simply cannot be helped if you stuck at work or well, just doing something else!

Think about it: If you're washing the dishes, you'd definitely, without a doubt want to be somewhere else (unless you really love washing dishes).

Is there a point thinking about it? Not really.

Be present at your moment instead. Quiet your mind. Eliminate distractions. Get the work done and be on your way!

 2) Money 

We all want money. We need it even. It's easy to compare with others who has more of it and see who is rich.

But let me be another writer who would gladly remind you this: Money does not buy happiness.

All the tangible goods or buy-able experiences can't ever bring joy.

I've met a ton of rich people who're constantly buying a bunch of expensive stuff simply to attract attention. Why? Because they're attempting to buy real friendship.

Of course, that doesn't work.

Money is important, but try not to chase it. It will come to you as long as you're happy and doing what you love. Treasure the other awesome things you have in life too, like friends, family and a shelter to shield you from the elements.

 3) Jobs 

Who has the lucrative job wins eh? In this competition, whoever has the nicest looking office or important title earns the most points.

But that's not what jobs should be about.

You probably have friends who are working some high-paying job and are given important responsibilities. That's okay, but it's a danger when you simply conclude they're better than you.

Don't do that.

Whenever I hear about a friend like that, I always ask how many hours they have to put in a week and whether they're ultimately happy.

More often than not, they work ridiculously long hours and are too tired to even spend the money they earn. They end up splurging on a really expensive single thing to make up for it.

Don't worry about what jobs others are working in. Find a job you're really passionate about instead, and you don't even have to work a day of your life.

Can't find a job based on what you love? Then work a job that covers your basic needs and use your time for your passions.

That's living life. Life is too short to be working everyday.

 4) Popularity 

I'm sure you've come across that one popular guy or girl who's constantly surrounded by friends. People always want to hang out with them and thus, they're popular.

Does this make you feel alone or even socially inadequate? Nah. Don't be.

"Popular" people only look popular because of the number of people around them.

What matters most is the quality of the relationship the person has with his or her "friends".

People who actually see a need to show that they have friends are actually very insecure. They think they aren't good enough by their lonesome and need others to validate them, mostly on superficial things like looks, or money.

It then becomes a vicious cycle as they try to "buy" new friends. Sooner or later, the relationship doesn't last at all.

Don't compare on popularity. Forge your own real friendships and stick to them, through thick or thin. These are the friendships which are going to last and guess what? A few, like less than five good friends is already plenty.

Be willing to give yourself your own private time too because it's alright to be alone. You can indulge in your passion or simply meditate to learn more things about yourself.

Besides, think about it: Why would you need so many friends? You aren't trying to garner votes to be the next prom king or queen anymore.

 5) Life in general 

This is the ultimate one.

When you want something, or when you feel your life isn't going the way you want it, you just wish you were (someone).

Well, it's too bad we can't switch bodies and live each other's lives.

This is life. Your life.

And your life consists of your own special individualism and unique experiences, both of which combine to create your special memories. They're what forms (insert your name).

There's only one of you amongst the seven billion plus people in the world and no one can ever take away this privilege from you.

Maybe life feels tough and you feel like you're dealt a shorter hand, but it's all done so as to create your life.

So be patient. If you use any of the above things to overwhelm your life and replace the voids, you're just slowing down yourself.

You're bound for great things. Have faith in yourself. Do what you love. Have fun with life and be happy. Your greatness will come.

Never compare.

Just for Pick the Brain readers

If you reach to the end of this article, that’s awesome!

I just wanted to tell you about  a free book  I wrote about how you can START getting inspired. It’s all in here, the Revival Kit.

- How to find passion

- Gain confidence to do what you love

- Learn how to stop caring about what others think.

This free book is only available through  this link to Alden-Tan . Check it out!

Bio:

 Alden Tan keeps it real at his blog and writes about  motivation in unconventional ways . He tells it like it is, to heart of the matter. Check out  his free report , Revive Your Life on “waking up” in life to start doing what you love. 

 Photo credit The post 5 Things You Need To Stop Comparing appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
The 5 Most Effective Ways To Live In The Zone The wise use of time is a learned skill. From the day I arrived at the U.S. Naval Academy, the demands on my time were fierce. I learned quickly that if I was going to survive and graduate I had to adapt to a demanding weekday schedule that started at 5:30 am and ended at midnight.

In the fleet, the demands increased even more. When I joined Pepsi after serving in the Navy, a whole new set of expectations and demands were placed on my time. My responsibilities included conducting contract negotiations, handling employee disputes, recruiting, facilitating training classes, and answering on average forty voice mails a day. Promotions always come with new demands, so with every step up in the company I took, my duties increased.

Well, there is no magic formula, but here are a few key principles that have helped me:

 Principle 1: Practice finish-line thinking 
Just as many people live paycheck to paycheck financially, they also approach life in general the same way: day to day. Successful people adopt finish-line thinking. They know what they want to accomplish, design a game plan to achieve it, and execute that plan to completion. Everything they do is geared toward reaching that goal. Before any of the other principles will help you, you need to map out how you’re going to move forward.

 Principle 2: Remove the clutter from your mind 
Both the desire to perform and the ability to achieve spring from sound mental health. A healthy mind is like a well-oiled machine. And the healthiest state of mind is driven by being present in the moment—or, as it is often called, being in the zone. The zone is that place of rarefied air where the mind is clear to focus only on the immediate moment. Athletes and coaches often speak of this realm where nothing interferes with their task. Everyone performs better when they can get in the zone. The determining factor is your ability to remove all the external influences and distractions from your mind and function solely through internal means.

 Principle 3: Plan everything and write it all down 
I have worked with many brilliant people over the years, and the ones who have distinguished themselves by finishing the job weren’t those who prided themselves on their memory and therefore refused to write things down. No, those who are successful are the ones who realize that they can’t remember everything. The adage that advises “the devil is in the details” is particularly applicable to successfully completing a project.

 Principle 4: Get into a routine and stick to it 
How often have you been unable to find something in your house? That used to happen to me all the time until I established the routine of putting things in the same place all the time. Likewise, I infuse as much routine into my workday as possible. For instance, rather than taking every phone call, I generally let incoming calls go into voice mail and then answer them at two intervals, once in the morning and once near the end of the day.

 Principle 5: Move out of your comfort zone 
You’ve likely heard that what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger. Well, I became stronger real fast as a midshipman at the Naval Academy. In part, it was a matter of survival. But more importantly, for the first time in my life, I was pushed far beyond my comfort zone. And although it was painful at times, that plebe year at the Academy was instrumental in molding me into the person I am today. I have stretched my horizons and tried new things. Making the jump from the Navy to the corporate world also forced me to leave my comfort zone for an unknown fate. Many make the military a career because they love it, but some stay in it for the security of retirement it provides.

Reflection Questions
What does it mean to practice “finish-line thinking”? Do you practice that mental discipline or do you usually just wing it?

When have you felt that you were “in the zone”? What circumstances contributed to making that happen? What steps would help you get in the zone more often?

To what extent do you have a routine—and stick to it? How hard is it for you to stand your ground when professional pressures threaten your personal and family life?

Do you treat each event and person on your schedule as no less important than any other? How could you grow in that regard?

In what way(s) do you need to move out of your comfort zone? What step(s) will you take to do so?

 Bob Ravener is an award-winning, highly accomplished senior business leader and U.S. Navy veteran, with over 25 years of corporate experience with such Fortune 200 companies as Dollar General, PepsiCo, Starbucks, and Home Depot. 

 Raised in an abusive, alcoholic and dysfunctional family with little money or possessions, Bob Ravener, in his just released book, Up! The Difference Between Today and Tomorrow is You , chronicles how he fought and overcame seemingly insurmountable odds in his personal and professional life. Up! The Difference Between Today and Tomorrow is You is available from Amazon.com. 

 Photo credit The post The 5 Most Effective Ways To Live In The Zone appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
5 Little Known Ways to Instantly Put Yourself In a Great Mood The internet is awash with great tips on how to improve your life, your mood and everything in between. The thing is - we already know most of this stuff. 
 Go for a long walk in the sunshine. 
 Arrange to have lunch with your friends. 
 Head to the gym and get those endorphins flowing. 
 Start the day with some great sex. 
 These are all good ideas but it’s time to think outside the box a little. What if it’s pouring with rain outside? That won’t put you in a great mood. What if your friends are all busy today? That won’t help. What if you have an injury or aren’t feeling too well? The gym is a no go. What if you have nobody to wake up to in the mornings? 
 Aha! 
 This is the perfect opportunity to start the day on your own terms, so here are 6 little known ways to instantly put yourself in a great mood (that you can do right now). 
 1. Wear your best clothes 
 Most people save their best gear for special occasions and nights out. Think about how crazy that is for a second. You’re spending a considerable amount of cash (presumably) on a dress or a top that only ever sees action once every 6 months! 
 That’s insane. 
 Everyone reading this right now has a favourite item of clothing. I’m willing to bet that even though it’s your favourite, you barely even wear it. 
 Go to your wardrobe right now and put it on. You have the right to look your best 24/7. 
 2. Take a day off work 
 When was the last time you had a day off? Weekends don’t count. 
 Society has forced onto us the idea that we have to be on our deathbed to have a day off work, but do you know what? Not all illnesses are visible. Sometimes our brain needs a rest too. Stress and anxiety are legitimate conditions that require our attention and the symptoms can often be greatly reduced simply by taking ourselves out of the firing line. 
 I know you may feel guilty about ‘deceiving’ your colleagues but you owe it to yourself to take a sick day once in a while. 
 Do it today! 
 3. Realise how lucky you really are 
 There were times in the past when I would curse my supposed back luck. Jobs that I applied for were turning me down, girls that I asked out were rejecting me and regardless where I looked, other people seemed to be having it easy. 
 That was until I started to pay attention to this homeless guy that I used to pass every day. I would wonder what his story was – where he came from and why he had nowhere to live. 
 It hit me like a freight train. 
 My ‘troubles’ were nothing compared to this man. I had a roof over my head. I was a guitarist in my own fledgling band. I had my friends, family and until recently, I was in a long term relationship, thus I didn’t need a new girlfriend. I had my freedom – both physically and emotionally. 
 Every day take 2 minutes out of whatever it is that you do, and just look around. Look at how the trees are swaying in the wind, watch the birds as they go about their daily business, feel your heart as it works to keep you alive. 
 Become present and clear your thoughts. Focus on the here and now – not on your stresses. 
 You’re alive, you have your health, you have a roof over your head, you have friends and you are you. 
 Stop focusing on what you don’t have and take a second to realise what you do have. 
 You’re luckier than you think. 
 4. That one thing you spend your days dreaming about – do it! 
 I’m willing to bet that most of you spend your days stuck in some weary, uninspiring job that you just cannot wait to run away from. I’m also guessing that a good portion of your time spent at work is in some kind of fantasy land of your own creation. A place where you can escape the tedium and focus on the things you wish you were doing instead. 
 It’s exciting. 
 You feel alive. 
 You’re living the life you truly want, if only for a brief moment. Until your draconian boss brings you out of your fantasy with a ‘come on, we have a deadline – it has to be done by 5!’ 
 Urgh. 
 But your fantasy; whatever it is, you owe it to yourself to make a start on it right now. It doesn’t matter how ridiculous the dream, it is your dream and you can begin your journey this very second. 
 Do you want to be a Popstar? Search online for some singing lessons. Do you want to travel the world? Start plotting your route. Do you see yourself on the New York Times Bestsellers list? Write that first page. 
 Whatever it is – do it now! 
 5. Seriously, get off the internet! 
 Of course, don’t go just yet. You’re reading an awesome article on an awesome site – take your time and look around, but once you’re done, try going the rest of the day with that laptop closed. 
 Turn off your phone too while you’re at it. 
 You’ll feel great, trust me! 
 ---------- 
 Jamie is a guitar teacher, writer and blogger who hates the typical 9-5 existence. After quitting his boring retail job to enter the world of guitar tuition, he created  Psycholocrazy  to document his thoughts and struggles as he takes on societies norms armed with nothing more than his cheeky wit and undeniable charm! Go ahead and grab his  free 33 page ebook  and find out how to quit your job and live life on your own terms too. 
 Photo credit The post 5 Little Known Ways to Instantly Put Yourself In a Great Mood appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
How To Stop Being Scared Of Your Passion “Passion is energy. Feel the power that comes from focusing on what excites you.” 
 ~ Oprah Winfrey 

As I pulled on the reins there was nothing…

I desperately needed to check my speed before we reached the jump of two 4 ft. hanging logs into the water.

I tried over and over again, as we flew down the hill, but to no effect!

This was my big day….

The TV crew, spectators including my parents with the manager of The British Eventing Team, my boss and sponsors all stood waiting at the water jump.

I had dreamt of this since I was four.

I spent years training, sacrificing everything and working my way up to be a professional event rider and this was my opportunity to prove myself to everyone!

I’d had been so focused on my excitement, the nerves of fulfilling everyone else’s expectations and getting a fast time, that I had let my horse get away from me.
She had been building momentum and now it was too late ~ I had lost control!

 We were no longer a team… 

As she aimed herself at the approaching logs, energy pumping through her body, she bounced so high that she cleared them with feet to spare, but nose-dived into the water.
Although she was fine, I had been nothing but a rag doll sent flying through the air, until I landed face down in the water and drifting into unconsciousness…
What followed was a lot of drama, embarrassment and shame!

But this wasn’t the last time I made this mistake…

We like to call it passion, excitement, drive, competition ~ maybe it sounds more romantic or less daunting, but “A rose by any other name, would smell as sweet.” [Shakespeare]

It’s all DESIRE!

 Desire gets a bad rap, but it’s a wonderful emotion… 

It’s our life force, our lust for life, joie de vive and makes us find reasons to get up in the morning!

Desire is our ability both to create (grow) and destroy (consume).
It is neither bad nor good, but we do need to learn how to master it.
The greater the desire we feel, the more force it has ~ the more we need the courage and skills to harness and direct it.

But like a learner being given a Ferrari to drive, I lacked the experience and skills to be in charge, so I ended up out of control and crashing!

I made this same mistake again was when I was totally bowled over by my feelings of love and complete sexual attraction for a man who came into my life.

I got completely carried away by my excitement, passion and fear of failure that instead of having a little patience to let it build and grow naturally I tried to rush the pace of the relationship between us and ended up with what I most feared ~ broken hearted!

 Desire is essential to survival and ability to thrive and be happy in life. 

Take hunger ~ our most basic desire, the desire to consume. We must fulfill it to live and grow…

Hunger tells us when we are not getting enough of what we need and we must listen…
Hunger is not only for the right food (thirst is the also hunger), but also affection, recognition, attention, play, rest and sleep.

Sadly women too often fall into the trap of giving too much and not receiving. They give all their energy and time away, whilst blocking themselves to being fed, so that they end up starving and anxious.

 Desire’s force to destroy gives us the power to clear, cut away and let go. 

To not hold onto things, experiences, emotions and choices that we have outgrown, no longer need and is dead or dying.

It also enables us to create personnel boundaries between ourselves and other people. It gives us the power to say no or demonstrate NO in action, so we are in charge of our lives and we don’t become smothered by other people.

Both empower us to create space to invite new possibilities and ideas into our lives and initiate change.

We are all creative beings whether that’s to create relationship, a baby, building a career, a business, a home, a piece of art, a book, making love and creating an orgasm!
It is in our nature to express and fulfill our unique desires for life, but if we lose total control of ourselves we ultimately get burned by a fire that’s raging!

To become empowered is to know how to manage the pace and force of our desires enough to have momentum, movement and flow in our lives, without getting carried away too much to lose control of the direction and purpose and that only comes from trial and error.
However if we are afraid our desires, and to repress, hide or avoid them we leave its force untamed and out of control.

 We end up redirecting our energy into our FEARS instead. 

Either trying to grasp, manipulate, dominate or control other people or situations to force an outcome, or instead turning it on ourselves to self-sabotage and destroy our own lives!
If we try to squish our desire out shame and guilt, the result is stagnation, depression and starvation, like a river being damned, unable to flow.

By embracing our desires and learning to not be afraid of the fire behind them, but instead respecting it we can learn how to play with it we can master how to harness the powerful energy for our benefit.

We can become a team with our desire able to still keep the momentum, but with enough control to communicate thought, skill and judgement like my horse and I needed to be.
We could have then not only successfully completed that one water jump and most importantly the rest of the cross country course!

*********************************************************************
 Jo Warwick is a therapist, energy healer and creator of www.rediscoverthemagic.com 
 She is passionate about empowering women to unleash their feminine power. Get your free copy of Don’t Screw It Up ~ Top Ten Ways To Create A Relationship That’s Just Right For You The post How To Stop Being Scared Of Your Passion appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
6 Reasons Why Going To The Gym Beats Home Workouts Home workouts are popular for their convenience, which is why I worked out at home for several years. But when I started to exercise at the gym, I noticed these six great benefits over home workouts, and now I'm in the best shape of my life!
 1. Fewer Distractions 
Your home is full of distractions - your computer, your TV, your cats and dogs, and the guacamole in the refrigerator (yes, please). Maybe you have the willpower to set aside a chunk of time to exercise, and that's great, but will you have the willpower to take your workout to the next level when the couch is in the next room?

Gyms don't offer much else to do besides exercise. You'll be deciding between bicep curls or the lateral pulldown machine, not bicep curls or a bucket of ice cream. Make it easy to make the right decisions by going to the gym.
 2. Higher Investment of Time/Money 
When a person invests in something, they will care about it more. When you pay a membership fee for a gym, not exercising also means you're wasting money, which is a form of pain that increases your commitment to going. And remember, the difference between six pack abs and a keg belly is commitment. People will still buy gym memberships and never use them, but it isn't because they like wasting money.

Going to the gym also requires an extra time investment to drive there. This seems like a downside compared to a home workout at first, but the boost in motivation (to not waste your trip) more than makes up for the time spent driving. Combined, the higher time and money investment in a gym will help you exercise more frequently and intensely. This has certainly been my experience after doing home workouts for a few years and switching to the gym.
 3. Diversity of Equipment 
You're not going to hear from me that you can't have a great workout at home; I've done it many times. But gyms offer the diversity of equipment that will enable you to target any muscle group you desire. With just a few dumbbells and a bench, you can do quite a wide variety of exercises at home, but it still falls well short of a fully stocked gym.
 4. Inspiration 
At the gym, you'll see a lot of fit people. If you have the right mindset, this is instant inspiration of what your body can look like with consistent exercise. Even if you're envious of them, this can fire up your competitive nature to get in better shape. Just don't try to do everything at once and injure yourself. Consistency brings results, not a single session that leaves you crippled the next morning.
 5. Group Exercises 
The local YMCAs near me have a plethora of group exercise programs. These are great because they run on a schedule, which removes your need to decide when exactly you will go exercise (a surprisingly big hurdle for many).

Second, it can be very encouraging and fun to socialize with others who want to be physically fit. Making exercise fun is a reward your brain will associate with going to the gym, which will decrease your resistance to exercise in the future. And even if you don't talk to anyone, it will still be fun to share in the challenge of physical exertion with others.
 6. It's Easier To Commit 
For me, this has been the biggest benefit of going to the gym. All I have to do is decide to drive to the gym, and I don't worry about the exercise part until I arrive. There's no confusion about what you're there to do.

But when you exercise at home, you can start or stop at any time; this is convenient, but it makes it more difficult to commit to exercising and exercise can mesh too much with your home activities. Back when I did home workouts, I'd cut several workouts short just because it was very easy to do so; when I go to the gym, I always get a solid workout.

If you want to more useful tips about decision-making, focusing, habits, and the power of small steps,  join us at Deep Existence . The strategies I share are what I've done to make 2013 the fittest year of my life.

My “Focus Tuesday” Newsletter is packed full of bonus tips and tricks, and if you join us, I'll send you my eBook and 40 exclusive focus wallpapers for your computer, all for free. Join the growing number of us doing our best to stay focused in a distracted world. If you’re interested, you can  sign up right here .

Cheers,
Stephen Guise The post 6 Reasons Why Going To The Gym Beats Home Workouts appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
5 Ways to Stop Laziness In Its Tracks Is procrastination eating into your valuable study time? Does it stop you from making the change to a healthier lifestyle or affecting your performance at work?

We all have our lazy, unproductive moments, when we really don’t feel like doing anything. The problem is, when these lazy moments become too frequent and actually stop us from moving our life forward.

 Here are 5 powerful, butt-kicking ways to stop laziness, beat procrastination and get more done. 

 Uncover the true reason behind your laziness 

The answer to ‘How to stop laziness’, starts with the underlying factors behind it. Laziness just like procrastination can be caused by deep psychological emotions such as feeling overwhelmed, stuck, afraid of failure or simply uninspired. Not every task or activity is exciting and fun to do.

Frequently, we may find ourselves stuck with tasks that seem complex, time-consuming and boring. It’s absolutely normal to resist doing them, but it helps to know what causes this resistance, so that you can figure out the best way to deal with it.

 Find your ‘hot buttons’ 

Discover what really motivates you. Not in a ‘blah-blah find your passion’ way, but here and now.

What usually helps you to spring into action? Is it an approaching deadline? The sense of responsibility? Tony Robins’s inspirational video on YouTube? The thought of an upcoming vacation? A little reward that you promised yourself? Or the fear of looking like an underachiever in the eyes of your colleagues and your friends?

We all have these ‘hot buttons’, based on either moving towards something pleasant or avoiding something highly unpleasant (like a stern look from  the boss or a parking ticket).
When you find what motivates you, it will be much easier to use this knowledge to your advantage and stop laziness.

List 3 things you want to accomplish before you go to bed

It’s that easy. You don’t need to write a laundry list of things that you want to get done. You just have to pick 3 tasks and write them down. Putting something in writing is a sign of commitment. It’s like a contract that you sign with yourself, promising that you will finish these tasks before you go to bed (even if it means staying up an extra hour).
When you get in a habit of listing 3 things and getting them done, you will no longer have to worry about laziness or procrastination.  Just three small, but consistently met tasks a day can add up to some jaw-dropping positive life changes by the end of the year!

 Work in blocks of time and take breaks 

We often procrastinate, because we are physically and mentally tired, not because we don’t want to try harder. Seemingly unrelated things such as lack of sleep, a heavy meal at lunch, or too many hours spent sitting in front of the computer, have a huge impact on our productivity, concentration and performance.

You may push and you may pull, trying to keep up with your expectations and the expectations of other, but eventually you will wear yourself out. So don’t push yourself to the point where your body and mind are crying out for a break. Schedule your procrastination by allowing yourself to take 10-15 minute breaks after every 40 minutes of work. Get up, move around, breathe some fresh air, change your surroundings and you’ll notice that it is much easier to create momentum when you get back to work.

 Allow yourself One Lazy day 

If you force your body on a strict diet, it will go into starvation mode. Which means that every time you eat something caloric, your body stores these calories as fat, trying to protect itself from starving again in the future. The same mechanism may be triggered by pushing your mind and body to work harder, instead of letting yourself relax, rest and recharge. They will take their down time whenever they can (even if it means procrastinating at work).

Don’t force yourself into ‘down time starvation mode’. Slow down. Let yourself enjoy one lazy day and just do nothing, without feeling guilty or stressed out about it. It may go a long way towards stay productive throughout the rest of the week.

 Arina Nikitina is the author of Real Goal Getting guide and she is on a mission to help you achieve your goals and keep yourself focused and motivated. If you want to know her advanced tricks to laser-sharp focus and unlimited motivation, get her free 4 Goal Setting Strategies guide at www.arina.ca/goal-strategies The post 5 Ways to Stop Laziness In Its Tracks appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
4 Ways Your Darkest Moment Can Positively Change Your Life I will never forget the moment that I woke up in a hospital bed the morning after I tried to take my own life. At the age of 26 years old my marriage had ended and along with it the non profit organization that I had worked so passionately for was pulled from under me. I didn't want to live.

After a seven year relationship my wife had walked out of the door never to return and as I sat in our apartment surrounded by everything we had built together the future looked dark and overwhelming and was certainly not one that I wanted to walk into. I turned to google and keyed in “most painless and quickest way to kill myself”.

I absolutely maintain that my attempt at wiping my existence off the face of the planet was the best thing to happen to me, it totally changed my life. Whether it's the end of a relationship, the struggle to get a job or an overwhelming sense of hopelessness and lack of direction we all experience “dark times” in life. It is these toughest times that can turn out to be the most profound.

Let me share with you 4 ways that your darkest moments could be the making of your life, should you choose.

 Forced self-intimacy 

When life takes you to the darkest places absolutely no-one around you can understand how you feel or what you are going through. Others may have had a similar experience but only you can react to your situations the way that you do. During our tough times we are forced to stare ourselves eye-ball to eye-ball, as though we are standing in the mirror and gazing deep into our very soul. As we engage in these moments of forced self-intimacy we make crucial decisions that redefine who we are, what we want and what we are willing to accept or not accept for our lives. It is the choices that we are forced to make, during this darkest period, that lay the foundation of our powerful life change.

 Blank canvas opportunity 

We absolutely take life for granted, trying to end my life was my awakening moment to this truth. I truly recognised with my head and my heart that we live life once and so I made a decision to view my life as a blank canvas, to start again and paint whatever picture I so desired for my life. The result was that I created an eco-island business in Fiji that gained worldwide media attention, was filmed for 18 months and became a TV show that aired in the UK, Australia and America. My darkest moment became my catalyst to pursuing life in all it's fullness and as a result I embarked upon a crazy adventure.

 Benchmarked experience 

When we experience a powerful life situation and nothing could feel as though it could get any worse we have then built a foundation of experience on which to build the rest of our lives. Nothing could be any worse than trying to take your own life and so I launched a bold and daring business idea – if I went bankrupt it could never be as bad as non-existence. The tough times that we endure give us a place to refer to and offer the motivation to continue. When we realised that we endure 'X', 'X' was pretty bad and as we are still more than standing we are filled with the hope that we can get through the smaller battles of today.

 A moment of awakening. 

There are times in our lives when everything gets on top of us and as a result we make decisions for our lives that are not healthy nor the best – wrong relationships, poor choices in patterns of behaviour, developing addictions and more. Friends and loved ones may tell us we are on a destructive path but we don't listen as it is a path that brings us comfort at this time. I truly believe that there are times in our lives that we are given a place to breakdown. It is through this breaking down experience do we undergo a powerful transformation of letting go of the bad and the unhealthy as we undergo a moment of awakening and rebuild ourselves, who we are, what we are about and everything that we stand for, from the ground up. These are the powerful moments of awakening.

During my darkest moment in my life, the only person who truly knew what I was going through was Google, it may be the same for you. Right now, in this very moment, it's just me and you. I want to encourage you to not simply endure this difficult situation but to grab it by the horns, to wrestle it to the ground and overcome. As you do I truly know that you will look back and be able to say that this moment, right now, was the best thing that every happened to you. I believe in you.

 Mark Bowness is a life change instigator who is building a community of people who are dedicated to changing their life, changing their community and changing the world. Mark produces a whole wealth of resources to enable you to instigate your life change. The best place to start is his FREE Life Change Toolkit which includes a 5 day e-course entitled 'How to change absolutely anything in your life' click here to register. The post 4 Ways Your Darkest Moment Can Positively Change Your Life appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
How To Stop Self Sabotage In It’s Tracks Ahhh, self sabotage. I'm very familiar with this particular rabbit hole. There are so many ways to engage in it, it's mind-bending. Relationships, career, goals, are all potential targets of self-sabotaging tendencies.

Self-sabotage is a stagnation of sorts. It's the result of telling ourselves, often unconsciously, "I'm not worth it," or, "I can't," or, "Someone else might be able to achieve this, but not me." There is no flow in sabotage, no fluidity of movement. It's stuck, and it feels like being caught in quicksand.

While I've engaged in my fair share, a particularly painful memory of self-sabotage was an experience that occurred when I hadn't been self-employed very long. Money was tight and I was doubting my ability to have my own business and my sanity in even considering it.

I attracted a new client who really liked me. Really, really liked me. She was finding her sessions with me very helpful and she was singing my praises. She came up with the idea to host a party, of sorts, in which I'd be the guest of honor, and her friends could meet me, ask questions, and do mini-sessions.

I hemmed and hawed. I asked her non-essential questions about the event. I muttered something about being an introvert and not being comfortable with groups. I told her I'd check my calendar and give her a call.

And I did not call her. I just didn't.

She was very lovely, and continued her sessions, and didn't bring it up again. She was much too kind to ask me what the heck my problem was.

At the time I had lots of rationalizations for not calling her. I WAS an introvert (I'm off that now, by the way); I didn't want to be on display in that manner; it was too hard for people to understand what I did with only a mini-session; and on and on... you get the picture. It was all bs, and designed to make me feel validated in not taking her up on her awesome offer.

I was totally clueless about it at the time, but later came to see that it was a massive act of self-sabotage that led me to not follow up with her. I was seriously questioning my ability to be successful at my venture, and was exhibiting behaviors to create that reality for myself very neatly.

I've learned a lot about self-sabotage in the meantime, how to recognize it early, as well as how to offset it. Here are a few steps I've found very helpful for me to take when I recognize I'm slipping into that particular mindset or behavior.

Ask, about the goal that's on the verge of being sabotaged, "Do I really want this?"

The answer to this can be surprising. I like to take my time. It can be difficult to separate what we really want from that internal, sabotaging influence.

 If the answer is yes, ask, "what it is that's keeping me from moving forward?" 

Is it fear of exposing ourselves to the outside world? Is it some part of us that says we don't deserve to be happy? Do we not believe we are really skilled enough to achieve the goal?

Self-sabotage is a behavior. Getting clear on the emotion that's causing it is how we can get to the core, and stop the behavior in a more thorough way. This is much more effective then just using willpower.

 If the answer is no, keep questioning. 

Because self-sabotage is all about rationalizing steps we take that DON'T support our goals, a "no" could potentially be just another example of this. Plan to dig deep with questioning until you ascertain it's a true no, versus another example of sabotage.

 If the answer is truly no, figure out what you do want, and change your plans. 

The key here is reminding ourselves that WE are the ones in charge. Not our emotions, not the parts of us that say we are not enough, not the voices we've internalized of people throughout our lives who said we couldn't... We don't have to wait to empower ourselves; we already are.

Share in the comments some ways that you deal with self-sabotage when it pops up!

 Maria Moraca is a conscious integrated channeler. She and Zurac (her “entity dude”) work in tandem; Maria offers tools to achieve empowerment and Zurac offers insight and clarification to life path questions. Her website and blog are at mariachanneling.com . The post How To Stop Self Sabotage In It’s Tracks appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .
----
7 Facts About Why Failure Is False 1. As the True Fabric of life is a cosmic weave of ceaseless beginnings, your power for starting over is backed up by Reality itself. Put the power of this ever-newing Now to work for you by volunteering to view any unwanted or unhappy moment not as some unavoidable ending, but as the temporary and passing condition that it really is.

2. All feelings of failure include the unconscious assumption that you know all there is to know about what has you bottled up. Pull the plug on this kind of self-limitation by meeting every moment of seeming defeat with the realization that since there is no end to your ability to learn about your life, there is also no such thing as failing in your life.

3. The painful identity of thinking of yourself as a failure can only exist for as long as you cling to some self-created, self-sinking label. The only reason you won't abandon this sinking ship of yourself is because in its cargo hold is stored all your cherished ideas about what it means to be a success. This discovery reveals that the only weight dragging you under is your best ideas about how to float through life.

4. Just as the physical eye that sees cannot see itself other than through a reflection, you cannot see your psychological self other than by gazing upon those mental images of your own creation. So, when "seeing" a failure in your mind's eye, just remember in that very moment who it is that put it there. Now, instead of feeling defeated by how you picture yourself, see through this defeated feeling itself by daring to see how this painful image came is part of an unconscious internal conspiracy created by this feeling in the first place.

5. It is impossible to feel yourself a failure without having first condemned yourself for some shortcoming. This fact tells of a secret self-duality which is the seed of defeat. Study the following reasoning closely: In order to see yourself as "small", you must be standing over yourself at the same time. Now see that neither of these selves within yourself can exist in your mind's eye without the other, and that being self-divided like this you must feel as though you're failing. But seeing that you are neither of these inter-dependent selves unites you in a Higher Understanding that is fail safe .

6. Even the most superficial glance at the world in which we live reveals that there is nothing living that isn't a work-in-progress. Which means even when it feels like life will break us, these trying moments are only part of life's broader plan to make us.

7. The same heavy hand once felt to be holding us back becomes the one which lightly lifts us... If we'll but agree to see that the only thing that stands between us and the success we long for is what we don't yet understand about ourselves. This means that self-discovery is self-success, and that for the self-studying man or woman, failure simply ceases to exist!

 Fear has a secret weakness... Discover that weakness and you'll know how to kick fear out of your life for good. Unfortunately, most people are blind to it. They can't see it. In best-selling author Guy Finley's groundbreaking program "Stop Being Afraid Once and For All," you're going to learn what that weakness is. Even better, you'll learn how to face the fear of failure -- and in fact ANY fear -- in the right way, so that its power over you fades away. Click the following link to learn more about this deeply-discounted 60-minute seminar from Guy, which includes the bonus MP3 "Breaking Through the Fear Barrier": http://www.guyfinley.org/Email/StopBeingAfraid.php 

 Guy Finley is the best-selling author of "The Essential Laws of Fearless Living", and more than 40 other books and audio albums on self-realization. He is the founder and director of Life of Learning Foundation, a nonprofit center for self-study located in southern Oregon where he gives talks four times each week. Guy is a faculty member at the Omega Institute in Rhinebeck, New York and is a regular expert contributor to Beliefnet and the Huffington Post. The post 7 Facts About Why Failure Is False appeared first on Pick the Brain | Motivation and Self Improvement .